Dr Muhammad alar is a plastic and
reconstructive surgeon he's part of the
American medical team with rahma
Worldwide it's an independent
humanitarian organization joins us now
from the European Hospital in Gaza good
to have you with us so first of all tell
us about reports of people dying because
of a lack of of Basics medicine and
Equipment that's absolutely true um
just couple of nights ago we heard the
ambulance coming in uh myself and a few
of my colleagues from the team we ran
down to the ER and uh we had a young guy
that we tried to resuscitate but
unfortunately there was nothing that
that we could do to help him out uh
there's no basic medications for
resusitation uh there's no equipments
there's no ultrasound there's no lines
to resuscitate so we end up losing
assault because of that and that
shouldn't have happened to be honest
with you uh not in the 21st century and
and shouldn't happen anywhere in the
world um assuming that we we apply the
same standards everywhere in the world
so the situation is really dire you're
right now in a hospital in Gaza when's
the last time supplies reached
you um the last time we had supplies
were when we came in this is when we
brought some supplies with us
medications and equipments but of course
they we ran out quickly and right now um
and as I mentioned before yesterday I
had to do surgeries without having a
gown on just just have gloves on and I
can tell you this is definitely going to
lead to an increase in the infection
rate and probably you know mortality and
morbidity among
patients uh so we are in in a crisis
situation we've been asking for more and
more supplies um every day I get a whole
list from a different department that I
try to provide to uh uh the rahma
organization in Chicago so they can at
least give us more medications more
equipments more supplies just to keep
the basic service
going you mentioned there you're asking
for more supplies and allow me to ask
what might appear to be a pretty obvious
question but who you asking and what
answer are you getting as to why if you
are getting any who's stopping or
preventing or why you're not getting the
supplies you're
requesting so the restrictions are there
however um the the the way I look at it
is the the request is way is way more
than what we can provide on a short-term
basis so um I have a list of about five
six pages just for one Department and to
bring this in it's going to take weeks
and weeks of logistics and coordination
and shipment etc etc why do just to
explain to people who might not
understand you have a list you need
equipment you need medicine how do you
request that who do you go to to say I
need this so so basically I I um email
this I'm sorry not email I text this to
the uh to the rahma the organization
that uh um that we're earn here um uh
through and they buy donations and uh
they start looking into providers for
these equipments either from local um um
agencies like in Egypt or in the United
States and then by the time we put the
order in and by time we ship things down
and by time we uh have the next team
coming in to bring the stuff with them
we're looking at weeks so this is not
practical at all why can't it come in
through the channels where medicine used
to come in explain that to
viewers there's we've heard there's
plenty of supplies at the
border well I I don't think these
channels are working efficiently I mean
we were able to bring in medications and
uh and and equipments after we had um
you know going through the right
checkpoints and the right uh agencies
and approvals uh I don't think just
bringing in supplies by itself or or uh
equipments by themselves would be
feasible just to ship him through
there's a lot of no NOS there's a lot of
restrictions and uh not everything is
feasible to bring
in what about the shelling that's going
on how I mean you've come from the US I
understand how do you deal with that
possibility that when we're hearing
medical staff in some cases are dying
that you may be facing yourself a life
and death
situation we are trying to separate
ourselves emotionally but I I I I
personally and and I'm sure many of my
colleagues get emotional at many points
when we felt that we had a patient that
we're treating and they should be cured
and recover and when we come to R arm
next day all of a sudden we that they
just died because there was a missing
equipment or a missing medication or a
missing care let me give you a very
simple example um none of the patients
in the ICU that we operate on do have
any kind of nutrition they don't have
any kind of nutrition food is scarce um
families are not able to provide any
food to the to the patients and we're
not able to give them any food so not to
put any nutrition in a patient equals
Death it doesn't matter how good your
your skills are it doesn't matter what
good your surgery is unless the patient
is being fed with
nutritions they will die and that's
exactly what's happening we have several
patients that just died because they're
not right the UN Human Rights office is
talking about a pattern of Israeli
attacks striking life-saving
infrastructure do you feel that your
facility you your patients are being
targeted um so let me let me just make
it clear and I said this before um
regardless the political stance
regardless of the ethnic backgrounds
ideological theological whatever um I'm
here for a medical Mission take care of
patients and it seems that we're not
able to provide them with their care now
why why this is happening it's simply
because there's a lot of restriction now
I leave it to the political uh you know
um parties and and uh and and uh to to
the uh to the United States and other
and un and other agencies International
and National so look into the reasons
behind that uh if you want my my
personal opinion I think it's very clear
and it doesn't need to be even
questioned or asked so in a nutshell
um there's there's significant
restriction on things to come in basic
supplies and we're not talking about um
you know sophisticated equipments or
sophisticated uh supplies we're talking
about basic food water um basic health
care needs um diapers uh we're talking
about nutrition for hospital patients um
um anesthesia equipments um um Sur
equipments supplies gauze gloves gowns I
don't think there's any question about
the legitimacy of these needs but I
leave it up to the U to the polit to the
to politicians to figure out why this is
happening all right thank you very much
for your time
doctor I appreciate it